>> Steve Kinney: So I can read,
I can write from the clipboard,
out of the box, pretty easily.
But this application's kinda
tedious that I have to go,
all right, I've got something on
the clipboard, I wanna save it, so
I can paste some stuff in a second,
and do some other stuff.
It's kind of like, not a great user
experience that I have to go into UI,
click some stuff, click some stuff again.
I'm a power user.
I don't know about the rest of you.
But like, I would like to just be able to
hit different keystrokes on my keyboard,
and have stuff happen.
So that seems pretty legit.
We can register global shortcuts,
as I've alluded to previously.
We can basically say, hey, when
the application is ready, tell the OS that
I want to respond to any, in this case
we're gonna go with something that,
the fun part when you do this with
friends is trying to guess a keyboard
shortcut that somebody doesn't already
have defined by their operating system.
So that's fun.
So we're gonna go with
the incredibly intuitive.
>> Steve Kinney: Command, or control,
depending on the operating system,
exclamation point.
So command or control shift one.
You're like yeah that means copy, right?
Listen [LAUGH], had to go with something
that I thought no one would have.
Command option c and v was probably
a little much so I went with this.
So we'll register those and
we'll unregister them when we go ahead and
do this.
So first I'm gonna do the one
to create a new clipping, and
you're going to do the one that is
going to write to the clipboard.
So I will add one that adds one to the UI,
and saves it, and
then you're going to go ahead and you're
going to do the one that takes whatever
the most recent one is and
goes ahead and grabs it.
Cool.
All right.
>> Steve Kinney: So
let's go ahead and try this out.
We're going to go to our main process.
And when the application is ready.
They called it create window.
Well let's put it in there for now.
So what we'll do is we'll say,
first well, we need to bring
in the global shortcut module.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
and we'll do it in here.
And we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: CreateClippingShortcut is
globalShortcut.register.
And then, remember those
accelerators from the menu items?
We're gonna just use one of those,
so we'll say CommandOrControl+!
That involves a shift, technically,
as well cuz it's an exclamation point.
If you wanted to add an alt in
there too you probably could.
You can add an option in there,
and alt as well.
We'll go with that.
And then we're gonna give it a function
that should be called when that happens.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll say in
this case, we're gonna say mainWindow
>> Steve Kinney: We'll send a message over
that says, create-new-clipping.
Thank you, Predere, for that.
And we do wanna know if it failed for
some reason.
If it was already registered, if there
is any reason that it couldn't do that,
we wanna at least log it to the console.
In a full application we
might go really nitty gritty,
of like building a whole UI
where they can define them,
and showing them an error if they
can't define it, so on and so forth.
We're gonna keep it
really simple right now,
we'll just say console_error
Registration Failed.
>> Steve Kinney: Create-clipping.
So we'll know which one failed and
that it failed at all.
So now when someone hits command shift 1,
it will send a message.
Let's also do a console log in here.
>> Steve Kinney: Create a new clipping.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, sweet.
And now we just need to listen for that
in the renderer and do the right thing.
We already have an add clipping method, so
we just basically need to call that with,
really with nothing cuz it's gonna
read from the clipboard itself.
So let's go ahead and get that in place.
>> Steve Kinney: So what we'll do is,
when the component mounts,
we will begin listening for it.
This application is never gonna
unmount that application component, so
we don't necessarily need to be nice and
clean up after ourselves.
But we will.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll
say componentDidMount, so
as soon as application component, it's
effectively the same as app.ready but for
our component.
We'll say bring in the ipcRenderer.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll do
ipc
>> Steve Kinney: Renderer
on the create-new-clipping.
>> Steve Kinney: This.add
>> Steve Kinney: Clipping.
All right.
This should do the trick,
famous last words.
Let's go ahead and
kill the application and start it back up.
>> Steve Kinney: Let me copy this
checking your system thing over here.
Let's try that out.
>> Steve Kinney: This could be hacking
your system because I missed one.
>> Steve Kinney: Command shift 1, and
you can see we're adding it in there.
I can go ahead,
let's put this window over here.
Just to [LAUGH] make a point,
I'm gonna go to some other application.
>> Steve Kinney: You can see that
even from another application,
we are adding it to the UI, it all works.
>> Steve Kinney: So let me just
set you up for the exercise, and
then we will be able to get
the other part working.
So we really just need to, I need to
give you to a little bit a plumbing.
Cuz sending a write new clipboard,
you're missing one piece which is like,
which one?
So we'll grab whatever
the top-most one is.
And so that will be
>> Steve Kinney: We'll
make one more method called
handleWriteToClipboard.
And all that's gonna do is
it's gonna go ahead and
get the first clipping
>> Steve Kinney: Off
the front of the array.
>> Steve Kinney: And
if there is a clipping on there,
cuz there could be no clippings
technically in there,
if there is a clipping it's gonna say
writeToClipboard with that clipping.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and I'm just at
this point gonna bind it just in case.
>> Steve Kinney: Because it's the event
loop, you might lose track of this, so
I'm just binding them as we construct it.